Hello, I'm Sharon and I work at Mencap but for the last nine years I've been the
leader of Masquerade which is an integrated theatre company for people
with and without learning disabilities based here in Llanfellin.
Would you like to introduce yourself Rob?
Hi, I'm Rob.
And where do you live Rob?
Llanfellin.
Now Rob, I've been leading Masquerade like I just said for about, this is my ninth year
but you have been doing Masquerade longer than that.
Yeah, I'm going to be in charge of it this time.
Great, I think that would be perfect.
I'll be the teacher.
When it comes to me to say bye bye, my work here is done.
I'll have to pass it over to you Rob.
Yeah.
You've been a brilliant leader.
Yes.
So tell me what do you really like doing in Masquerade?
What are your favourite things out of all the things that we do?
Shall I remind you of some of the things we do?
First and foremost we are performers.
So we act, we sing, we dance, but we also do lots of art things don't we?
We make scenery and we make props.
So out of all them, which are the things that really fire you up?
Which things do you really like doing?
Could it be the acting and the singing?
Yeah.
Because when I see you, you take it all so seriously, you get all your fantastic costumes
and your masks and then you perform with complete focus out to the audience.
Do you enjoy doing that?
Yeah.
Why do you enjoy performing so much?
Do you know?
Is it just something that comes naturally to you?
Yeah.
I think you're right because out of everybody in Masquerade, all you need to do is put on
some item of clothing or costume and you just become that character in your body straight away.
And even on Zoom, which is much more difficult to be focused on,
sometimes you've come on and you've come on in a mask or a costume and you've literally
stayed in that mask and been in that character for the whole of Zoom.
It's amazing.
You're so good at getting into characters and being other people.
Oh yeah.
So tell us something about singing because you really love singing as well, don't you?
Yeah.
I'm just showing my voice.
How's it?
It could tickle there.
You have to do some voice warm-ups.
What do we do for warming up voices?
Mmm.
Or aah.
Or la la la la la.
Fabulous.
Well done.
Yeah.
So when we do our Masquerade performances, what are your favourite songs that you like to sing?
Mmm.
I'm thinking about musicals really.
Yeah, that's why I got a CD at home.
Mmm.
So out of all the things we've done, all the songs we've sung, what was your favourite
song that you've ever done?
I think it's Joseph and Lesley.
But I've got a DVD now.
Yeah.
It's a real one this time.
Fantastic.
You know, they're brilliant.
I know you're a big fan of Les Mis.
I know you've seen it like a hundred, probably a hundred times.
Yeah.
I'm not going in London yet because there are no trains running yet.
And the theatres haven't opened yet either.
No.
All series B ones.
Because Dermot's going to book one in series B.
Yeah, they're meant to be opening later this month.
Yes.
I think it will be, Be Dean the Beast.
Oh, I'm going to be sitting right at the front.
Brilliant.
Well, I just wanted to talk about your favourite song that you sang when you had the lead part,
which was Any Dream Will Do, and Joseph.
Can you tell us if you enjoyed that?
Yeah, we must do it again.
You were fantastic.
You had your beautiful multicoloured dream coat on.
Did my dad come to it?
Yes, your dad came to it.
And he was so impressed afterwards because it was the first time you'd done a solo.
Normally, you were always in the group and the chorus.
Yes, I think the light was shining in my eyes.
Yeah, on the stage, that's right.
The light shining in your eyes.
So you were very brave, weren't you?
Yeah.
Very brave.
And you took it on.
Yeah, and I didn't need to go for a week because you know how to hold it in.
No, and you know what's really good is, Rob, since I began...
I was flaredesh with her, wasn't I?
Since I began, you used to get so nervous at the beginning of shows.
You were just almost so anxious.
I was going to be sick.
You were going to be sick.
You wanted to go to the loo all the time and it was really almost so difficult for you.
But I think over the years, you've got much, much better.
So I wouldn't say you're relaxed now, but I would say you're so much more confident.
Would you agree with that?
Yeah.
Yeah, you're so confident in your performances.
Because when I look back at all those DVDs of all the shows, you really stand out
because your performances are so out there, so confident, so focused.
You know exactly what to do and you do it.
And it looks amazing.
And the audience, they just believe it.
They believe in everything you're doing and it's great.
So well done, you.
So I also thought we could just have a quick talk about all the places in Lambethlin that we've performed.
So I think since it's begun, we've done St. Muthlin's Day.
So can you remember what we'd usually do at St. Muthlin's Day in the town?
Yeah, the parade.
We must do that again.
Yeah, we must do that again. We do the parade.
So what do we do in the parade as masqueraders?
Yeah, yeah, we get our instruments and our drums and we dress up, don't we?
And we go all together in a long train.
Sometimes we've got...
Oh yeah, the Maverick one.
And that as well, yeah, yeah.
Sometimes we've got our cups.
And especially when they wind up.
Cup.
Trophy, it's gone back to Nicola.
It's gone back to...
The Maverick show.
For the best costume.
So, yes, so we must get that back again.
That's right.
I don't know who's going to win it now.
I don't know.
It won't be me this time.
I don't think it'll be on this year, Rob, so don't worry about that.
But yeah, we performed at Myford.
We did Space and we did the Plastic Queen, remember, the environmental show.
Did a couple of shows at Myford and we paraded a little bit there, didn't we?
And where else have we done?
We've done there, we've done the town in St. Muthlin's Day.
Oh, Crosskeys.
Oh yeah.
And we did a performance in the Crosskeys, a fundraiser.
Yeah, you bet.
Next time, make sure it's been the right place.
I think maybe we could do it in Newtown for a change.
Yeah, we could.
Yeah, so sugar mom could actually come out and watch it.
You've done one in Newtown just before I started at the Monty Club.
Remember that, with Iris?
I think we'd better do that again and go outside.
I'll talk to Sian about that.
That's a good idea, something in Newtown.
Yeah.
Outside, yeah, in that lovely park there.
Yeah, that would be a really good idea.
Yeah, I'll do that.
Yeah, brilliant.
So mom could see it this time.
She could come out from the shop and I think that'd be quite nice for her to come out too.
Yeah, and see you in Newtown, because you grew up in Newtown, didn't you?
Yeah.
Yeah, so not too far away.
Brilliant idea.
Well, is there anything else you'd like to talk about to do with Masquerade?
Anything else you'd like to do?
We have done a lot of things, I have to say.
Looking back, we've done pirates, ghosts, around the world in 59 minutes.
What else have we done?
Fairy tales.
We've done the Greeks, Here Come the Greeks.
That's the last one we did, wasn't it?
Yeah.
And do you know that Masquerade in the town is very valued by people?
People absolutely love coming to see Masquerade, because more than anything else, they say it really cheers them up.
I have people saying Masquerade is like the local panto when we do our Christmas show.
Bless you.
Yeah, so that's why we always get a good audience, really, because people want to come and see you, because you make them happy.
Yeah, I mean, I love it.
Yeah, there we go.
Right then, well, it's been lovely to chat, and let's hope Masquerade comes back soon, in all its glory.
It's been OK on Zoom, hasn't it?
At least we've kept in touch with each other and seen each other.
Yeah.
How have you found it on the computer?
It's nice.
You've enjoyed it, yeah, good, good.
Have you seen on mum's iPad?
Oh, yes.
I've seen you on mum's iPad, yeah, you often come on when you're at mum's.
Yeah, because I left mine behind.
Oh, right.
Oh, don't worry, we'll get you on next week on somebody's computer, it'll be fine.
Oh, yeah.
Anyway, brilliant. Well, it's lovely to chat, Rob.
I'll see you next Wednesday, Masquerade, 6.30 on Zoom.